Module summary.
Poor requirements and estimates mean runaway projects.
Lessons learned have shown that these are the two main
causes of poorly executed projects.
Project definition document is your first step to better estimates.
This approach enables a quick way to gather high-level requirements.
Quality estimates set the foundation for accurate project costs.
As we develop incremental and iterative estimates,
our project costs become better understood and trusted.
Level of effort is balanced against risk management.
The amount of time, effort,
and resources to develop the estimate is considered against
how much risk the business can afford.
Quality estimates are essential for task prioritization and staffing resources.
Important for go/no go decisions and the placement of
talent on the right assignments.
Project estimation is a process.
Repeat, predict, improve.
Yes, estimation is a process.
And the better your process, the better the prediction outcomes,
that is your estimates.
Understand your fears of estimation to better overcome them.
If you fear that initial estimate target that no one will ever forget,
then educate your management or customer that estimation is a process.
It is iterative and will be defined as you learn more about the requirements.
Strong communication and people skills are essential.
You need to be able to quickly extract from people the key requirements.
This takes practice and skill,
but will be easier for you if you have an estimating process Know
the difference between budgets and estimates.
Remember,
a budget is all they have to spend and an estimate is an
approximation of what you think it'll take to do the job.
And lastly, thank you very much. We'll see you in the next module.